Now, let’s understand the significance, all right?
Now, he said a word ‘Swaha’.
‘Swaha’ is the capacity of the Nabhi Chakra.
That is – it burns everything.
The capacity! You can say ‘the essence’.
It burns up everything. Whatever you put into the fire, it burns up.
That’s one. Second it purifies.
Say, if you have got mixed up gold
and you put it in the fire, it cleanses.
It burns something, it does not burn something – discrimination.
It has got discrimination.
It has got brilliance.
Fire also has another great capacity,
that it goes against the gravity.
And when it goes against the gravity,
it suggests that there can be another energy that can go against the gravity and that is the Kundalini.
Many people confused with Kundalini the Prana Shakti.
They thought, because Prana Shakti is the child of fire.
They could only relate it to Kundalini.
They thought that Kundalini and Prana Shakti are the same,
because Kundalini also goes against the gravity.
Then it has capacity to give you brilliance.
A person who do this fire can use it to polishing things into brilliant,
to its brilliance.
It has capacity to join by melting.
Like human beings are like steel, worse than that sometimes.
Alright? They could be.
Then it is this fire in a subtle way,
Swaha,
melts their heart and joins them.
So the significance of fire is expressed here, and that’s why fire is worshipped.
Fire has been worshipped since very, very long time
by many gurus, prophets – they worshipped fire.
And the essence of it was that we should have the quality of fire.
Now, when the saints like you invoke the fire,
you invoke the essence of fire.
Essence of fire is ‘Swaha’.
And this essence of fire gives you all the subtle qualities of the fire.
First of all, it burns away your negativity.
You have seen that on the photograph when you have a candle
and if there are negative forces it flickers, it dances.
Because of you and My photograph
the fire of the candle has been enlightened.
Sort of it has reached this ‘Swaha’ stage. Where it is Swaha it assumes it’s Swaha stage.
And when it assumes its ‘Swaha’ stage then it burns.
Normally, no fire can burn, you know that, but you have seen it, it happened.
Then the fire in the stomach, that is within us, when it is enlightened,
then it enlightens our attention.
We get a capacity to rise against gravity that is [Maha Shakti ? ].
Then we understand the discrimination that the fire does that it burns certain things and it not burns certain things.
When we have that capacity we also discriminate, we know.
It also has got [tages], it has got light, it gives you a face which is brilliant, which is shining,
and also gives your eyes a capacity to see right things at right places.
Eyes become brilliant
and when in the eyes this fire is enlightened,
there is a glint in your eyes.
Sahaja Yogis have a glint in their eyes, always shining, like a joking, like, you can say, a flame.
And you can go on adding to it and it can go on working.
The food is digested by this fire within us.
But when an enlightened person digests his food, then whatever is produced out of that fire becomes Shuddha, means it becomes pure.
When you vibrate the food and eat it, it goes in the stomach
and makes the fire of the stomach that ‘Swaha Shakti’, that Swaha power.
And then this power makes the food act like a medicine in your stomach.
That’s why we put vibrations in what we eat,
because once it goes in the stomach, it will excite that Swaha power within us.
Like this, all the powers of the fire, which are good powers,
whatever are auspicious are good powers,
the good side of it,
they get enlightened, awakened and they [...].That’s why Havana is there..
So this is the Nabhi chakra
and we are putting everything to the universal Nabhi.
So that It uses its discretion, burns off all this which is bad,
then it clears the atmosphere
by throwing it’s flames around,
by charging the atmosphere with its capacities
– or say the atmosphere ether
– is Akasha.
It also has got its subtle being.
It excites the Akasha, the Akasha also gets cleared out. The atmosphere is cleared out.
All the Bhoots and Badhas and Pisachhas run away, all negativity runs away.
All lethargy, inertia go out.
It excites also the [GwanasPati ] that is there,
the vegetation,
plants, animals.
Every sort of thing that exists, whatever has created [Buddha].
Whatever has created has been enlightened by this fire.
But of course it depends on your capacity also to excite the fire.
How much you can excite that fire is very much important.
Supposing you are an impure personality
and you are not yet there, your link with the divine is poor,
you are a doubting Tomas, for example, or some of them are suspicious,
all nonsensical cases.
They can’t do this.
Only a person, who is a realized soul and who has given realization to many people, works it out better.
So, all those who are sitting here must remember that the responsibility is very great in that [place].
Just now, put all you nonsensical doubts on one side and, please, work it out.
Otherwise if you cannot do it, you better give up, because it’s like a dog in the manger, as I told you.
You can’t do it, you don’t want others to do it. It’s no proper.
At least let others do it, because we want atmosphere to clear out.
We want everybody to be helped, we want Sahaja Yoga to be established, we want the emancipation of human beings,
we want peace to descend, we want blessings of God to come.
Those who don’t want to do it or think that they are doubtful, they should not do it. Absolutely frankly they should not do it.
Because they don’t realize just now. They will doing when they realize. It’s a very open offer to all of you
not to feel insulted or bad, but to do it with your heart. If you cannot do it, you should not do it,
because this is a very great tusk we have taken over, it’s a tremendous tusk.
Is not just having some people around you and having a big show, it’s a very deep tusk
and those who are capable of doing it, should only do it otherwise they spoil the game.
First of all, we always worship Shri Ganesha,
who came as our Lord Jesus Christ on this earth.
Because He is the Vignanashaka, He is the one who takes out all the perils
that can come to this deep work.
Nobody has authority to do Havana unless and until they are the Brahmins, means the ones who [..] you can’t do it.
One develop lots of problems.
All right! So now this is the beginning.
Do it very carefully. You have to put it round because you are realized souls, you have your own powers.
When you put it round, what you do, you give a Bandhan yourself, and whatever is there within you, goes into it and you put it.
So the fire discriminately does everything. It solves all the problems at one time.
It burns off whatever is bad, it gives you whatever is good.
It will establish the gold in you, it will give you the lustre, everything works out simultaneously.
But you have to awaken the subtleness, for that you have to be sublte yourself.
If you are gross and if you are mundane, and if you are on that level,
then rather difficult. You can understand that. You have to have the level.
Alright. Let's do it.
Now, you have to say ‘Agni Devta’, because ‘Agni Devta’ is the one, which is ‘Swaha’ and you have to say about other Devata.
See, Agni as I told you is the seeking, all right? Is the water.
Now, today you are going to do Devi’s names, means that is the desire.
The most powerful thing is Devi’s names.
What you are doing, is to now trying to purify your desires – the basics, absolutely,
where you have to return after all. So, that’s what you have trying to do.
But supposing you want to have more [ascent], then you should do Brahmadeva Saraswati.
Now if you want to have more evolution – Vishnu.
We are quite evolved, but I find a gap between the others, so let us create more desires, all right?
Because if we only evolve, only we few will left in the air, the rest will be all not belonging.
Take the Vedas, look where they are (people laughing).
We have to work it out, they are all blind people.
They don’t understand. We have to go slow
and to make it slow and to make them come up, this is the Puja we are doing to desire.
Mahakali Puja to desire,
is the Devis Puja, the primordial Mother, Adi Shaktis Pujas is there,
that, so the Desire is created.
See, it doesn’t burn. It’s a living thing. It doesn’t burn it.
What you have in your hand, all the fragrant things from various sources, are meant to be put there fragrance of the Mother Earth,
and put fragrance for this fire. So, it burns away all that is nonsensical and keeps the fragrance and makes the whole atmosphere fragrant.
Fragrance is the essence of Mother Earth.
The ‘Bhoo’ – that is called as the ‘Bhoo’ – but is the fragrance, causal.
First of all when it is better, ....
So, first we are going to say a few names of Shiva.
For Shiva you need not do it. [...] But Now just now we will do it. The names you can do.
This is the gold we have to do. You have to burn ourselves, because Shiva is Sadashiva.
What is there to burn anything?
This is the spirit.[....]
A yogi recites the names in a row (without ‘swaha’).
Virata-Atma, see! The Virata. It resides in the heart. See the relationship.
Chit Agni. This is Chit Agni. Agni ok? Attention.
I thought of the...this is digestion - is the Swaha, is to digest.
That’s what you get with the word digest, is better Swaha – that digest,
whatever is good for the body, it turns out to do the best.
All right? Whatever is not needed, it burns.
You can say Swaha is actually digestion, digestive power.
Swaha is a digestive power of fire, is Swaha.
Void. It is all void.
Intestines, liver, everything...Liver also sorts all your poisons.
Kidneys also [ ] out whichever is wrong.
So, that’s what it is.
Retention of the good and the expulsion of the bad.
All this people worship fire for the same reason.
These are all Viveka – attention, to the Angi again. The Agni, the fire of your Chitta. You see, when it gets enlightened it becomes Chitta.
That’s why when – I cannot explain why, how I do these things, because Mine is Chita Shakti.
First you have to become ‘Chitti’ and then Chitti Shakti.
So, this is a little gap in between.
Means the Agni, means in the Chitta whatever you put into an enlightened persons Chitta, he knows how to sort out.
Chit Agni.
without the baddhas?
10 names of Guru is good...
That is the Guru Shakti also, because only if you have the Guru Shakti you can discriminate. You know who to burn out.
Now, for example Rajneesh was burned by fire.
Fire means that settle.
Ahankara can be burned by fire. So many things can be.
And you appear like - even these flames you see – actually your Chakras appear like this, only like flames, but they’re very silent,
they are beautifully burning of different colors.
Now, you have to take out all the Badhas, you see. That better do it now.
Start it with Bristol.
All the Badhas of Bristol, of London, of the English Centres, of our Ashrams, of lethargy, of false gurus, of insincerity, argumentativeness, selfishness, uncollectivity, miserliness...
All the badhas of families.
Very true. Very true.
All the badhas of attachments.
All the badhas of children.
All the badhas that prevent us from surrendering.
All the badhas that give us heat.
Ignorance.
Delusion.
Illusion.
All the badhas of psychologists.
All the badhas of drinking.
All the badhas of analysing.
Anger.
Sympathizing.
And also borrowing and lending
– in Sahaja Yoga it is not allowed.
Ego. Oh – baba!
Do it trice.
Physical ailments.
Mental ailments.
Drinking.
Y: Eating too much.
M: Eating too much is very important.
M: Bhuts and Badhas. Eating too much is not bhut.
Y: All the badhas of all the doctors.
M: And of the hospitals.
Y: And of patients.
M: Of the politicians and the strikes and all these obstructing [ ].
Y: All the churches.
M: Whatever is anti peace and anti bliss.
M: Money making propositions in the name of God.
M: All anti God activities.
M: Everything that is against love.
M: Against collectivity.
Y: All the badhas of the seekers coming to the meeting tonight. M: Oh, very important!
Y: Inertia.
Y: All the badhas of the media, that prevent the advertisement of Sahaja Yoga. M: Yes, very much.
Y: All the jada that is accumulated.
Y: Badhas of Cowley Manjor
M: All the people which makes rules and regulations, advance […] which is against God;
Y: All daydreamers.
Y: All the planners.
Y: Competitiveness.
M: Now for India also for ashrams.
Y: All the badhas that prevent the establishment of Sahaja Yoga in ashrams which we own in India.
Y: All the Badhas which prevent us from possessing our own land.
Y: All red tape.
Y: All the avariciousness.
Y: All the petty-mindedness.
Y: All  jealousy.
M: All the badhas in the meditation.
M: All the badhas in your relationship with God.
M: All the badhas in the relationship between you and your Mother.
M: All the badhas in the dedication over Sahaja Yoga.
M: All the badhas of the dedication to your Mother.
M: All the badhas in understanding the dynamism of your being.
M: All the badhas in understanding the dynamism of Great God's work.
Y: All the badhas of identifications.
M: Left Nabhi still...All the badhas in the left nabhi.
M: Badhas of the half-baked and the murmuring souls.
M: Now as dawn is going to say...
M: All Badhas in the work of God,
M: All badhas in Spain and Portugal.
Y: All badhas in Australia.
Y: All the badhas in America.
Y: All the badhas of Canada.
Y: Switzerland.
M: France, very important.
Y: All the badhas of Europe.
Y: Viena.
Y: The jewish ego.
M: All the remaining.
Y: Whatever remains.
Y: All the badhas of speaking about sahaja Yoga without the atma.
M: May God bless you all.